[IMP] general: iot windows iot update process (#8361)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/iot/config/updating_iot.rst

   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is `Raspberry Pi Imager
   <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Windows IoT update
==================

Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box may occasionally need an update to work
properly.

The following processes cover the :ref:`uninstallation <iot/config/uninstall-windows-iot>` and
:ref:`re-installation <iot/config/re-install-windows-iot>` of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box.

.. _iot/config/uninstall-windows-iot:

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

Prior to upgrading the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, the previous version
should be uninstalled first.

.. important::
   Before uninstalling a previous version of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`

>    box, ensure that there is a newer version of Odoo's virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box

Reviewer: this is referred to throughout as _Windows virtual IoT box_, so just changing to be consistent
```suggestion
   box, ensure that there is a newer version of Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box
```

   available, compared to the version currently installed. To do so, navigate to the `Odoo Nightly
   builds <https://nightly.odoo.com/>`_ page.

   On the :guilabel:`Odoo Nightly builds` page, navigate to :menuselection:`Builds (stable version)

>    --> Windows` to view the date next to the :file:`odoo_(version).latest.exe` file. *(version)* is
>    equal to the version of Odoo (e.g. 16.0, 17.0). The latest version of the Windows virtual
>    :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can be downloaded by selecting this file, or it is always
>    available at the `Odoo Download <https://odoo.com/download/>`_ page.

Reviewer: Matching the UI and fixing the sentence
```suggestion
   --> windows/` to view the date next to the :file:`odoo_(version).latest.exe` file; where
   *(version)* is equal to the version of Odoo (e.g. 16.0, 17.0). The latest version of the Windows
   virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can be downloaded by selecting this file, or it is
   always available at the `Odoo Download <https://odoo.com/download/>`_ page.
```

Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is done through the Windows
program manager.

On any version of Windows, search for `program` to open the :menuselection:`Programs --> Programs
and Features` section of the :guilabel:`Control Panel`. Then, select :guilabel:`Uninstall or change
a program`. Next, search for `Odoo`, and click the :guilabel:`... (three dot)` menu on the
:guilabel:`Odoo.exe` program to uninstall.

Confirm the uninstallation, and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo uninstall wizard.

.. _iot/config/re-install-windows-iot:

Download and re-install
-----------------------

The latest version of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can be downloaded
from the `Odoo Nightly builds <https://nightly.odoo.com/>`_ page or it is always available at the
`Odoo Download <https://odoo.com/download/>`_ page.

To download from the :guilabel:`Odoo Nightly builds` page, navigate to :menuselection:`Builds

> (stable version) --> Windows` to and select the :file:`odoo_(version).latest.exe` file. *(version)*
> is equal to the version of Odoo (e.g. 16.0, 17.0).

Reviewer: Matching UI and fixing sentence
```suggestion
(stable version) --> windows/` to and select the :file:`odoo_(version).latest.exe` file; where
*(version)* is equal to the version of Odoo (e.g. 16.0, 17.0).
```

> To download from the :guilabel:`Odoo Download` page, find the :guilabel:`Odoo 16` section, or a
> version higher (depending on what version the database is), and select the :guilabel:`Download`
> button for :guilabel:`Windows`.

Reviewer: Can be simplified to
```suggestion
To download from the :guilabel:`Odoo Download` page, find the section for the version of Odoo (e.g.
16.0, 17.0), and select the :guilabel:`Download` button for :guilabel:`Windows`.
```

   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is `Raspberry Pi Imager
   <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Windows IoT update
==================

> Windows IoT may occasionally need an update to work properly. The following process is the
> un-installation and re-installation of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Windows IoT (Internet of Things) may occasionally need an update to work properly. The following process outlines the
un-installation and re-installation processes of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
```
Optional - I think it might be useful to add what IoT stands for upon first mention, then use an :abbr: tag afterward.

.. important::
   Before un-installation of a previous version of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
   Things)` box, check `Odoo's download page <https://odoo.com/download>`_ to ensure a newer version
   of Odoo's :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is available.

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is done through the Windows

> program manager. Using any Windows version, search for `program`. Then, select :guilabel:`Add or
> Remove Programs` located in the control panel. Search for `Odoo` and click the :guilabel:`three dot
> menu` (ellipsis) to uninstall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program manager. Using any Windows version, search for `program`. Then, from the control panel, select :guilabel:`Add or Remove Programs`. Then, search for `Odoo` and click the :guilabel:`three dot
menu` (ellipsis) to uninstall.
```

> Confirm the un-installation and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo uninstall guide.

Reviewer 2: Is the Odoo uninstall guide something you can link here? Might be useful if so

Download and re-installation
----------------------------

To begin the re-installation, navigate to the latest installation package for Enterprise or
Community - Windows edition at `Odoo's download page <https://odoo.com/download>`_. Next, install
and setup the Odoo :file:`.exe` file. After the instructions screen, click :guilabel:`Next` to start
the installation and agree to the :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.

During the next step of the re-installation, select :guilabel:`Odoo IoT` from the :guilabel:`Select
the type of install` drop-down menu.

.. example::
   For reference, the following should be installed:

   - **Odoo server**
   - **Odoo IoT**
   - **Nginx WebServer**
   - **Ghostscript interpreter**

> Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation and click :guilabel:`Next`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation, and click :guilabel:`Next`.
```

> Setting the destination and completing the installation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the destination and complete the installation
```
Optional header change

-------------------------------------------------------

To complete the re-installation, select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder` and click
:guilabel:`Install`.

.. warning::

>    Choosing ``C:\odoo`` as the install location will allow for the Nginx server to start. Odoo's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Choosing ``C:\odoo`` as the install location will allows the Nginx server to start. Odoo's
```

   Windows virtual IoT software should not be installed inside any of the Window's User's

>    directories. Doing so will not allow for Nginx to initialize.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   directories. Doing so does **not** allow for Nginx to initialize.
```

   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is `Raspberry Pi Imager
   <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Windows IoT update
==================

Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box may occasionally need an update to work
properly. The following processes are the un-installation and re-installation of the Windows virtual
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

.. important::
   Before un-installation of a previous version of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of

>    Things)` box, check `Odoo's download page <https://odoo.com/download>`_ to ensure a newer version

Reviewer 3: true, but how ? this page does not display anywhere the version that the client will download, it only shows a "Download" button. It might confuse customers making them think they have to download "later versions" like version 17 instead of 16.

Maybe it would be a good idea to inform on what really download when you click the button (does it update the file daily ? weekly ?).

Also note that there is this other page:
https://nightly.odoo.com/
which contains the latest release per platform, for instance:
https://nightly.odoo.com/17.0/nightly/windows/
where you can acautlly see the real executables difference (which will each contains the version of the code of odoo that was there on this day)

   of Odoo's :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is available.

> Uninstalling Windows IoT

Reviewer 3: I don't think this section should belong here. I think it would be better elsewhere and put a .seealso here

Author: @lse-odoo 

You mentioned on discord that this is a required step to updating the windows IoT. If this isn't true we can remove it, otherwise I think it's good to leave in.

Reviewer 3: It is indeed required to remove then reinstall. My point is rather that in my opinion the uninstall process should be in a more appropriate page/section (troubleshooting maybe ?)

   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is `Raspberry Pi Imager
   <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Windows IoT update
==================

> Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box may occasionally need an update to work
> properly. The following processes are the un-installation and re-installation of the Windows virtual
> :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box may occasionally need an update to work
properly.

The following processes cover the un-installation and re-installation of the Windows virtual
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
```

.. important::

>    Before un-installation of a previous version of the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
>    Things)` box, check Odoo's latest download page to ensure a newer version
>    of Odoo's virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is available. To reach the download site
>    for the latest update use the following URL: `https://nightly.odoo.com/16.0/nightly/windows/`. It
>    is imperative that the `16.0` be replaced with the version of Odoo that the database is running
>    on (only full versions or long supported versions). The latest file will have `latest` in its
>    filename. Note the date of upload to the right of the filename.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   Before proceeding with the un-installation of a previous version of the Windows virtual
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, check Odoo's latest download page to ensure a newer version
   of Odoo's virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is available.
   
   To reach the download site for the latest update, use the following URL:
   `https://nightly.odoo.com/16.0/nightly/windows/`.
   
   It is imperative that the `16.0` be replaced with the version of Odoo that the database is
   running on (only full versions or long supported versions). The latest file has `latest` in its
   filename. 
   
   Note the date of upload to the right of the filename.
```

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

> Prior to upgrading the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, the previous version
> should be uninstall first. Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is
> done through the Windows program manager. Using any Windows version, search for `program`. Then,
> from the control panel, select :guilabel:`Add or Remove Programs`. Then, search for `Odoo` and click
> the :guilabel:`.. (three dot)` (ellipsis) menu to uninstall.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Prior to upgrading the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, the previous version
should be uninstalled first.

Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is done through the Windows
program manager.

Using any Windows version, search for `program`. Then, from the control panel, select :guilabel:`Add
or Remove Programs`. Next, search for `Odoo`, and click the :guilabel:`... (three dot)` menu to
uninstall.
```

> Confirm the un-installation and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo uninstall wizard.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Confirm the un-installation, and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo uninstall wizard.
```

> Download and re-installation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Download and re-install
```

----------------------------

To begin the re-installation, navigate to the latest installation package for Enterprise or
Community - Windows edition at  `Odoo's nightly download page
<https://nightly.odoo.com/16.0/nightly/windows/>`_.

.. important::
   It is imperative that the `16.0` be replaced with the version of Odoo that the database is

>    running on. The latest file will have `latest` in its filename.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   running on. The latest file has `latest` in its filename.
```

Next, install and setup the Odoo :file:`.exe` file. After the instructions screen, click

> :guilabel:`Next` to start the installation and agree to the :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Next` to start the installation, and agree to the :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.
```

During the next step of the re-installation, select :guilabel:`Odoo IoT` from the :guilabel:`Select
the type of install` drop-down menu.

.. example::
   For reference, the following should be installed:

   - **Odoo server**
   - **Odoo IoT**
   - **Nginx WebServer**

>    - **Ghostscript interpreter**

Reviewer 4: Should these be bolded, as they currently are...or italicized, as we typically do with app/software/program names. What do you think?

Author: I've added gui labels instead. These are options on the screen

> Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation, and click :guilabel:`Next`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation, then click :guilabel:`Next`.
```

Set the destination and complete the installation
-------------------------------------------------

> To complete the re-installation, select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder` and click

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To complete the re-installation, select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder`, and click
```

:guilabel:`Install`.

.. warning::

>    Choosing ``C:\odoo`` as the install location allows for the Nginx server to start. Odoo's Windows
>    virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software should not be installed inside any of the
>    Window's User's directories. Doing so does **not** allow for Nginx to initialize.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   Choosing `C:\odoo` as the install location allows for the *Nginx* server to start. Odoo's Windows
   virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software should **not** be installed inside any of
   the Window's User's directories. Doing so does **not** allow for *Nginx* to initialize.
```

The installation may take a few minutes. When complete, click :guilabel:`Next` to continue.

> Ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked and click :guilabel:`Finish`. After

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then, ensure the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked, and click :guilabel:`Finish`. After
```

> installation, the Odoo server runs and automatically opens `http://localhost:8069` on a web browser.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
installation, the Odoo server runs, and automatically opens `http://localhost:8069` on a web browser.
```

The webpage should display the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage.

> .. seealso::

Reviewer 4: is seealso the appropriate admonition block for this kind of information? What do you think?

Author: Changed to tip

>    A restart of the Windows IoT program may be necessary should the web browser not display

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   A restart of the Windows IoT program may be necessary if the web browser does not display
```

   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is `Raspberry Pi Imager
   <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Windows IoT update
==================

Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box may occasionally need an update to work
properly.

> The following processes cover the un-installation and re-installation of the Windows virtual

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following processes cover the uninstallation and re-installation of the Windows virtual
```

:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

.. important::

>    Before proceeding with the un-installation of a previous version of the Windows virtual

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   Before proceeding with the uninstallation of a previous version of the Windows virtual
```

   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, check Odoo's latest download page to ensure a newer version
   of Odoo's virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is available.

   To reach the download site for the latest update, use the following URL:
   `https://nightly.odoo.com/16.0/nightly/windows/`.

   It is imperative that the `16.0` be replaced with the version of Odoo that the database is
   running on (only full versions or long supported versions). The latest file has `latest` in its
   filename.

>    Note the date of the upload to the right of the filename.

Reviewer 3: @tiku-odoo I have mixed feelings regarding the changes. There is nothing wrong using the "Download" button on odoo.com/download.
For me the main issue is that the client will likely be confused as when you download the file it always say "..._latest" at the end. I can already see coming customers that will download the file a second time X months after and accidentally install the previously downloaded installed (so with older code) instead of the new one.

Maybe we could recommend to download any existing installer in the download folder before hand to avoid that

Author: Updated with warning admonition block to avoid this issue.

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

Prior to upgrading the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, the previous version
should be uninstalled first.

Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is done through the Windows
program manager.

Using any Windows version, search for `program`. Then, from the control panel, select :guilabel:`Add
or Remove Programs`. Next, search for `Odoo`, and click the :guilabel:`... (three dot)` menu to
uninstall.

> Confirm the un-installation, and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo uninstall wizard.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Confirm the uninstallation, and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo uninstall wizard.
```

   It is imperative that the `16.0` be replaced with the version of Odoo that the database is
   running on. The latest file has `latest` in its filename.

Next, install and setup the Odoo :file:`.exe` file. After the instructions screen, click
:guilabel:`Next` to start the installation, and agree to the :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.

During the next step of the re-installation, select :guilabel:`Odoo IoT` from the :guilabel:`Select
the type of install` drop-down menu.

.. example::
   For reference, the following should be installed:

   - :guilabel:`Odoo server`
   - :guilabel:`Odoo IoT`
   - :guilabel:`Nginx WebServer`
   - :guilabel:`Ghostscript interpreter`

Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation, then click :guilabel:`Next`.

Set the destination and complete the installation
-------------------------------------------------

To complete the re-installation, select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder`, and click
:guilabel:`Install`.

.. warning::
   Choosing `C:\odoo` as the install location allows for the *Nginx* server to start. Odoo's Windows
   virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software should **not** be installed inside any of

>    the Window's User's directories. Doing so does **not** allow for *Nginx* to initialize.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   the Windows user's directories. Doing so does **not** allow for *Nginx* to initialize.
```

The installation may take a few minutes. When complete, click :guilabel:`Next` to continue.

> Then, ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked and click :guilabel:`Finish`. After

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then, ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked, and click :guilabel:`Finish`. After
```
